Facing fierce opposition from parliamentarians of all political stripes, British Prime Minister Theresa May told the House of Commons Thursday that a newly agreed draft declaration with the European Union on future relations after Brexit will ensure the U.K.'s "smooth and orderly" departure from the bloc.

Labour Party Leader Jeremy Corbyn slammed the draft text as a concession-riddled "leap into the dark" — calling it "the blindfold Brexit we all feared" — but May defended the 26-page draft document as a deal that will help protect jobs, avoid a hard border with Ireland and allow for the U.K. to forge new commercial agreements with other countries.

The declaration on the future relationship was agreed upon at a technical level by negotiators and endorsed Thursday by the European Commission, the EU's executive arm and the body in charge of Brexit negotiations. It appeared to pave the way for a weekend EU summit to rubber-stamp the deal.

"This is the right deal for the U.K.," May told reporters outside her 10 Downing Street offices.

But in Parliament, Corbyn and other MPs warned that, if accepted, the draft text would force Britain to accept rules and court rulings set by Brussels — without any recourse.

European Council president Donald Tusk, who chairs meetings of EU leaders, said Thursday the draft declaration still requires "the endorsement of the leaders." EU heads of state and government are due to meet in Brussels on Sunday to approve the declaration and a separate divorce deal.

May is set to return to Brussels on Saturday for more talks on the eve of the summit, including with European Commission president Jean-Claude Juncker.

May faces widespread opposition in Parliament over the divorce agreement, which was agreed last week. That 585-page legal treaty deals with the terms of Britain's departure, including how much money it owes the EU.

Ticking clock
Britain officially leaves the EU — the first country ever to do so — at midnight on March 29, but a Brexit deal must be agreed on in coming weeks to leave enough time for the European Parliament and the U.K. Parliament to endorse it.

As opposed to the withdrawal agreement, the draft declaration on future ties is a political, not a legal, text.

"This declaration establishes the parameters of an ambitious, broad, deep and flexible partnership across trade and economic co-operation, law enforcement and criminal justice, foreign policy, security and defence and wider areas of co-operation," according to the document.

It also talks about close economic ties and integrated supply chains that have developed and been cemented since Britain first joined the European Economic Community — a precursor to today's 28-member EU — in 1973.

The document notes that the "parties envisage having a trading relationship on goods that is as close as possible, with a view to facilitating the ease of legitimate trade."

The actual legal text will have to be negotiated after Brexit on March 29, and that could well be even more complicated than what has come so far.

In a speech in Berlin before Tusk's announcement, German chancellor Angela Merkel underlined that "Britain should remain a partner, remain a friend."

Though Britain "should have very close economic relations with us," Merkel did underscore the difficulties that may arise in any attempt to keep services seamless.

"We have to say honestly that in the services sector we don't have a great deal of experience with international free trade agreements," she said. "But we want to see that as a future relationship."

Gibraltar sticking point
The European Commission, which has supervised Brexit negotiations, refused to comment directly on the declaration.

But spokesperson Margaritis Schinas did confirm that "work is continuing" to resolve differences between London and Madrid over Gibraltar, the tiny territory at the tip of the Iberian Peninsula that was ceded to Britain in 1713 but is still claimed by Spain.

Last year's EU guidelines on the Brexit negotiations effectively gave Spain veto power over future relations between the bloc and the British overseas territory, and the Spanish government says it will vote against the Brexit deal if Gibraltar's future isn't considered a bilateral issue between Madrid and London.

Gibraltar's chief minister, Fabian Picardo, on Thursday said the peninsula would be part of any agreement on Britain's exit from the EU.

Spain wants it made clear in the text of the proposal that decisions on Gibraltar must be agreed bilaterally between Spain and Britain.

Spanish Prime Minister Pedro Sanchez said on Tuesday that his government "cannot accept" Gibraltar's future being determined by negotiations at the EU level.

EU diplomats said they hoped Spain could accept a statement, similar to one made before the withdrawal negotiations, that nothing in a future EU-U.K. treaty would apply to Gibraltar unless Madrid consented to that after bilateral talks with London.

May said she had spoken with Sanchez and was confident that on Sunday they'll be "able to agree a deal that delivers for the whole U.K. family, including Gibraltar."

May also held talks with Austrian Chancellor Sebastian Kurz, whose country holds the rotating EU presidency until the end of the year.